In this video I'm going to take you through some of the basics of ether that led to networking.
And we're going to take a little trip back in time here and think about kind of how Ethan It has evolved
over the years and that will really help us to gain a better understanding of where we are right now.
So some of you might be old enough to remember this and I'm probably exposing how old I am by covering
this but when ether first came out it was called Carrier sense.
Multiple Access collision detect that was kind of the first iteration of this type of layer to network.
So let's talk about how that worked.
So will it have with carrier sense.
Multiple Access question attacked is essentially we would have this long cable.
Right.
We have a long cable like a coaxial cable like the kind you hook up your cable TV to.
And when I wanted to go ahead and deploy a new node on my network I would connect it to that cable.
So what we'd actually use is something that we used to call a vampire tap.
Now here's my new machine and another machine and another machine and I'm connecting all of these machines
to my network and I'm doing so by simply tapping in to this shared wire and the shared physical cable
that all of these workstations are using.
So here I have labeled my four stations one two three and four and they're all using vampire taps they're
tapped into this shared wire.
And when one of these nodes wanted to communicate on the network here's the process that it would go
through.
So let's say node one had some sort of traffic that it needed to transmit while no one would basically
shout onto the network Hey I've got something I need to sent I've got something I need to send and I'm
going to go ahead and send it well if no 3 just so happened to be sending information at the same time
we would have what's called a collision.
Right.
Two machines weren't allowed to transmit at the same time like this.
And this is why we need to carry our son's multiple access collision detect our network would need to
be able to basically detect the fact that two machines had tried to communicate at the same time.
And what would happen then is it would set like a random timer for machine 1 and a random timer for
machine 3 and eventually they'd try to transmit that data again.
OK so that was kind of the beginning point for ethernet.
OK so with that kind of configuration collisions were pretty prevalent.
Right.
And we ended up with a lot of overhead and a really it's just not an efficient way to transmit traffic
across the network.
So we had to come up with something better.
It also wasn't really efficient to have to tap into this share to wire every single time you needed
to connect a new machine.
And so along came hubs and hubs that were kind of like the next generation in local area networks.
So hubs changed the way that our network looked instead of having this shared wire and down the middle
of our network with a hub.
What we now have is this box looks kind of like a switch right for used to seeing switches.
It looks kind of like a switch where it's got all these ports that my machines can plug into.
So now when I go and deploy a new host I don't have to tap into a wire.
I can simply deploy my new host system and go ahead and connect it up to a port on that hub.
And now my machine will be able to communicate but I still had the same problem with collisions.
Right.
If I have two machines connected to a hub and they attempt to communicate at the same time I'm going
to have a collision so that led to this need for something better yet again and what we came up with
that's better than that is anything us switch and the key to switching is something called the Mac address
table.
So for each of these virtual machines that we see here they're going to have a unique MAC address every
machine on any Fernet network has a unique MAC address and only one machine can have that Mac to our
old physical computers.
It was something that was burned into the physical adapter that was not changeable.
Right.
And you can kind of think of our virtual machines the same way.
They have this mac address assigned and it cannot be changed.
So for the moment let's just think of this in terms of physical computers.
I have two physical computers plugged into a switch and the first computer has MAC address one.
And the second computer has MAC address to and let's say that MAC address one and MAC address to that
these two machines want to transmit some traffic at the same time.
And let's say that they both want to communicate with a machine that has a MAC address three.
So let's add one more machine to our equation here.
Here's a third machine.
And it's got yet another unique MAC address.
So both of these machines want to communicate with this device that has Mac three well as we saw in
our previous generations with the hob or with that just a long stretch co-ax cable that would have resulted
in a collision if both Mac went to Mac to try to transmit at the same time we would have had a collision
one alert to switch does is it utilizes a MAC Address table to avoid those collisions.
So let's say that that the first machine Mac won whatever machine has Mac won goes to transmit this
data and the destination address is Mac 3.
Well that data is going to flow into my youth in us which the Ethernet switch will receive at and it'll
store that frame in memory or at least that's how switches used to work.
Now they don't really do that so much anymore.
But it'll store that frame that layer to frame in memory and it will lock up this destination address
which is Mac 3 and so came back three is located on this port.
So we'll go ahead and we'll take that Ethan at traffic and we'll switch it over to that port and it
will reach its destination.
And so the machine that has to could potentially be transmitting data at the exact same time.
And that frame will also get received in memory and the switch will look up the destination MAC address
and its MAC address table.
And it'll forward it out the appropriate port.
So in this scenario our MAC Address table will look sort of like this.
Here you can see I've numbered all of my ports and my switch port.
One two three four five six and seven.
And so as these devices are sending and receiving traffic the switch will start to build its MAC address
table.
Let's say for example the machine that has MAC address one transmits some Ethernet frame well when that
frame arrives at the switch the switch will say I just got a frame from a Mac one on port six.
So now that this traffic has come in from Mac one and the switch saw that traffic arrive from Mac one
on port six this switch will recognize and I've got a device with Mac one that's connected to port six.
Let me go ahead and update my mac address table.
So at this point the switch will add that entry to its MAC address table.
And now in the future if it ever gets a frame that's destined for Mac one it will know hey I have to
for that frame out port six you know and learn Mac two the same way if some frame comes into the switch
hits port five from source Mac Mac to.
Well now associate Mac two with port five and Mac three with port three.
And it'll build up this mac address table.
So it has the ability to receive a frame store it analyze it against the MAC address table and then
forward it to the appropriate Ethernet port.
So that's the job of my lawyer to switch.
That's the most basic function of the Lair to switch.
There's a lot of other things that éclairs to switch does as well like our GPS and spanning tree and
stuff like that.
And we'll learn about those and upcoming lessons.
But at the most basic level that's what my Leora to switch does.